ah the Internet has created two classes
of humanity there are people who cannot
make their opinion matter no matter how
passionately they want their voice to be
heard and then there are people who
can't make their opinion not matter no
matter how little that wants to be heard
the latest example of this to cause a
kerfuffle ayah is kerfuffle in the
dictionary I ask you is it now what word
I don't know to cause a kerfuffle in
vegan politics is um makeup impresario
Kat Von D taking a stand against
vaccinating infants right now I think
she doesn't really want her opinion to
matter I don't think she wants to be a
crusader for this cause I don't think
she wants to do a fundraiser or start a
foundation or give a deposition for the
United Nations all things celebrities do
by the way but she is mysteriously in
this class of people whose opinions
matter no matter what now yeah partly
this is just the vagary of the internet
of social media taking over the role of
the yellow press and partly also I mean
I think it reflects the culture of
hero-worship admiration looking up to
people as role models that still runs
pretty deep in white American culture so
I got my best girl Melissa off camera
here when I grew up I don't I don't
think it would be an exaggeration to say
there was nobody ie no actual person
whom I looked up to right can't pee but
look stereotypically for a lot of boys a
lot of boys I mean I've seen it they
actually like create in their
imagination a version of a sports hero
whom they were late - you know
positively I mean in terms of actually
watching the sport you know normally
these these athletes don't say or do
anything really that meaningful but
they're somehow so enthusiastic this
spirit of emulation they start to look
up to a sports hero and start to care
about his opinions on on other matters
or what-have-you but whether it's an
athlete or an act
or what-have-you did you grow up with
that kind of relationship to public
figures or any public figure or even one
you know I've never asked for anything
like this by the way you know yeah I
mean I look I did have posters on my
wall as a kid but they weren't they
weren't that sort of thing you know
there wasn't uh what right school
assignment or something yeah you can go
to somebody right I mean the the the the
fundamental problem here is just that
people become famous for reasons so
utterly profoundly unrelated to what it
is they're being asked to take positions
on now I assume Kat Von D I've seen one
video from her talking with us because
it was really two veganism I assume she
knows a lot about makeup
you know I assume she just detailed
knowledge cuz I remember talking with
that her struggles to actually get all
of the ingredients in her makeup to be
vegan there was some technical you know
chemical changes that had to be made in
the formula blah blah blah how to get
this shade of red or something without
using a dye that's derived from insects
and this kind of thing so she knows
about makeup
why would I assume her opinion matters
about about anything else but I mean the
American approach to fame and celebrity
really seems to be if you are famous for
any reason your opinion matters for
every reason and you know the reverse as
I say there's this other class of
humanity who may really care
passionately about it may know a great
deal about you know a political issue a
health issue something very important
and they absolutely can't you know get
their get their opinion so what look
maybe the ultimate ridiculous example of
this is Kim Kardashian going to Donald
Trump
to ask for a pardon for somebody so a
what
well I'm Kim Kardashian be the person to
do this our current culture our current
perception of Fame whatever so Kim
Kardashian is made into a lobbyist for
some political issues and the United
Nations themselves you know try to do
this you know Nations they I remember
them recruiting one of the singers one
of the singer dancers for the Spice
Girls to be a United Nations
humanitarian envoy
I remember looking at that thinking wow
nobody at the UN thinks this is a this
is an all-time low or something
so I mean even sort of August
international formal political bodies
you know play this game definitely US
House of Congress plays this game amino
American actors and actresses show up to
give depositions before Congress famous
athletes you know what I think it's cuz
Congress they want to feel famous you
know it's it's ridiculous but they they
want to kind of get into the limelight
and have these people you know uh give
give formal lectures but me look fame
fame as such is utterly unrelated to
intelligence I mean who could believe
that Kat Von D got to where she is
through intelligence and you know why
why will you think she would be more
intelligent than another makeup artist
who may be very good at the craft you
never attain Fame ie being good at being
a makeup artist being unrelated to thing
you might you might know some brilliant
makeup artists in the New York area you
know who are who have much better
informed opinions about health policy
public policy on vaccinations but Kat
Von D these these things are really
grata clear related again someone like
Kim Kardashian I mean you know in some
ways the ultimate example of Fame for
the sake of Fame she's in that nobody
can can put their finger on any
particular talent that she's supposed to
have she can't sing she can't dance and
so on but we were going through a period
of time where it's absolutely insisted
that these are the people's whose whose
opinions matter about about everything
so you you grew up with two brothers did
your brothers have idols and this says
role models is really you know people
they people they looked up to
yeah yeah yeah yeah I know right
like bands like one of my brothers
really late we're in posters of bands
you know I was also into music as a kid
but I didn't think of musicians as write
public figures or even like people that
I looked up to right I like the music
but I didn't right yeah I mean you know
partly it's growing up Canadian partly
it's growing up communist my parents
were extreme left wingers I am NOT I'm
not a communist at all but I grew up
with that it would have been impossible
for me to relate to any mainstream
politician that way you know I kid
growing up in Canada your politicians
they just don't matter they don't have
the kind of impact on the world stage
that an American politician does but I
mean nevertheless I mean you know the
idea of really looking up to an admiring
Bill Clinton of really looking up to an
admiring george w bush or you know a
bunch of Canadian politicians most
people watching this will have never
heard of I mean even that's you know
it's very alien to me it's something I
can't relate to it's something I can't
understand at all right but I've been
through this I've been through this in
vegan politics most obviously in my
confrontation with durianrider right
what the the psychology had to deal with
again and again was of people basically
this guy was famous for no good reason I
mean what he doesn't sing he doesn't
dance
there's no great talent there he wasn't
in a movie you know he's not great at
riding a bicycle
he didn't win a race he's not an Olympic
athlete or anything he didn't fight
school race he's basically famous for no
reason and I dealt with you know to some
extent face-to-face to some extent via
email or other or other media hundreds
and hundreds of people who idolized and
idealized this one person and then
disregarded you know the content of what
he was actually saying
and just sort of so much evidence to the
contrary that he wasn't trust or that he
wasn't worth listening to
you know he was however briefly in the
class of people whose opinion mattered
on all things things he had no expertise
in you know experience with or what have
you you know why does it matter that Kat
Von D you know is against vaccinations I
think that's that's the fundamental
problem and one of the fundamental you
know puzzles of our time there are two
classes of humanity you know I guess the
internet gives everyone the illusion
that their opinion matters and that
maybe has its own kind of corrosive
effect on social and political discourse
but then there's this other sense in
which they're the people whose opinions
matter on everything and the people
whose opinions matter on on nothing how
many people you know have managed you
say a master's in public health policy
and know infinitely more than Kat Von D
and what they have to say just just
doesn't matter in the least how I do you
believe in because again it is one in a
million but a very very small number of
people have negative consequences from
vaccination their stories are also
interesting and some there's still Pro
vaccine they say well I'm the one person
in a million who actually had medically
real health consequence of this but I
can still recognize this is this
fundamental you know advance that you
know even though I may suffer the
consequences this still matters those
stories are out there I mean you can
find them googling around I've heard one
story like that the internet here you're
on YouTube you know that that really
matter um I did so I mean I have a
daughter she's now five years old when
she was a newborn baby I did do the
reading on which vaccine she was getting
when and the vaccines do have an
immediate effect on the child's health
they have a reaction they become very
unhappy very disconsolate they're in a
real discomfort they don't sleep
properly for several days they normally
need to be treated with a mild
painkiller like baby aspirin so there's
a form of the analgesic asmath special
for it's not normal
aspirin but they normally do need to be
helped through those couple of days
after they get the shows it's a big deal
and it can be very traumatic and
disorienting for the parents because
they see before they're new they're
familiar with the behaviors of the baby
then they get this ejection and then it
throws the baby's mood and behavior all
in a whack there's this really extreme
you know reaction to it you know so
sorry so two things when I did the
research one of the main things that was
paying attention to was just the order
of the vaccines because some of the
vaccines they were for illnesses the
baby couldn't possibly get though they
were three years old so I actually I
said to the doctor I'm in France you're
given a little booklet for the
vaccinations it's like getting stamps in
a passport to make sure you got them all
and I said well look I'm actually really
concerned about these illnesses there
were some I wanted move earlier I said I
need these right away she can actually
get them now and I said but some of them
it seems to me we could do four months
later when we come back for another
round of vaccines
you know just moving the schedule
slightly because they already was spread
out though for year and a half or
something when you get the vaccines and
the doc this particular doctor really
liked me well I said very few words to
him but he really responded possibly to
the several couple of things we
discussed and he really looked at me
with great admiration and he said do you
know what you've just proposed that was
the schedule we used to follow just four
years ago you know he said that was and
and the government changed it the
government changed the schedule and I
always thought the schedule four years
ago was better that this is a kind of
minor you know minor technical change
but um you know look the response to
this from unnatural vegan I thought was
incredibly shallow stupid and just kind
of aimless if you sit down with someone
and show them a videotape of what it
looks like to have an infant died of or
suffer with pertussis so pertussis is
generally called whooping cough we took
infant pertussis if your baby gets
pertussis you are going to watch it and
hold your baby and be trying to comfort
your baby while it dies
long slow painful death and if the baby
survives it's quite possible it's gonna
have permanent brain damage basically
from asphyxiation from lack of lack of
oxygen the the throat swells up and they
you know they suffocate to death it's on
mean it's unbelievably awful and when
it's your baby when it's not just a baby
you're watching on film when it's your
but I mean apart from you know yes you
know you could be struck by lightning
and your baby dies instantly yes I mean
this is much less likely but possible if
you have an unvaccinated baby that dies
of pertussis not just unfortunate for
the baby I think you will be
psychologically scarred for the rest of
your life and you'll be psychologically
scarred in a way you wouldn't be by
being struck by lightning or you know
having your baby die being struck by
lightning some kind of airplane crash or
some of these things that are fast and
out of your power it's not out of your
power apart from the the visceral
experience of holding and comfort of
your baby while it dies a long slow
painful death you would be doing that
with the awareness that you made the
decision that doomed your child to die
that you read some [ __ ] on the
internet that led you to refuse the
vaccinations for pertussis which is an
amazing breakthrough in human history
that we can take that decease off the
list and now you're you're sitting with
your baby Willet well it goes through
this I heard an interview with a woman
and so when she was a child I forget how
long ago this was what was used she was
an elderly woman says maybe a hundred
years ago but you know she and her
sister got the vaccination for polio the
polio vaccine and they went swimming
with two boys who were brothers who
hadn't gotten it yet wasn't even that
the parents were against it they were
their parents were busy and they were
gonna do it two weeks later or something
and swimming the two boys got polio one
of them died and one of them as ever
called he was he was reduced to living
and what's called an iron lung
you know yet he was completely disabled
he had the use of one arm but he lost
you know most of the ability in most of
his body so in effect she never saw
too little wasn't she she heard about it
you know this is this kind of effect in
your life um so I mean the other broad
question that asked her that a natural
vegan raised was of how do you actually
talk to people about this this is the
vegan mind track side of it I've
actually doing outreach or engaging
people and she rests on this really
stupid lazy self-congratulatory thing of
talking about about push back like oh
well if you tell people the truth
there's gonna be pushback it's really
worth questioning what is push back this
is an excuse it's an excuse for inaction
or what have you I I don't know if you
show someone that videotaped this is
what a baby dying of pertussis looks so
I can talk that through this is the
situation you you could be putting
yourself in or indeed it could be could
be someone else's kid dies of it because
your kid didn't get this didn't get this
you know this treatment this this
vaccine you know what does pushback mean
in that in that context I have engaged
Socratic ly in conversations with people
vegans who were anti VAX and when I just
talked through the adult reality of well
you know if my adult daughter was gonna
go to Cambodia in the future
the first thing in Acts about is do you
have the vaccines you need to be going
to Cambodia when you ship out with the
US Army to do service and the tropics
even Japan there are few vaccines you
may need to make sure you got for going
to here are you up to date on your
vaccine card is is the first question
you ask you know and I asked about you
know remember talking to this particular
vegan vegan parent so you know if your
son or daughter were going to Africa do
humanitarian work you wouldn't be
interested in you know their resistance
to these tropical diseases that they're
that they're gonna be exposed to over
there and what you got on the other end
was doubt knowing self wake up and push
back you know and the guy did give me
some answers he didn't just sit there
completely in stunned silence but these
were questions he hadn't asked himself
before I think that is because the whole
platform the stage on which this little
unfolding is basically white privilege
in a very real sense is people who live
in the suburbs of Wisconsin and who
think diseases don't touch them or don't
touch anybody they know because they
live in a society where it's possible to
have that delusion and in Cambodia in
most of Africa nobody has that delusion
everybody knows somebody whose child
died a long slow terrible death
you know from disease or a grandparent
or an aunt or an uncle everyone's kind
of aware of the danger that's in the air
in the water in the mosquito is you know
you name it and until not too long ago I
think most people in Europe and North
America you know had that had that
awareness too but when my mother was a
child which is again approximately a
hundred years ago they still literally
had posters that the government would
plaster onto the door saying quarantine
you know when you had certain
communicable diseases the government
would literally quarantine your house
that nobody was allowed to come visit
you or you know they weren't allowed to
deliver the newspaper to your door
because you had a disease that was under
quarantine it's a very literal meaning
of quarantine that today we don't even
we don't even think about so she could
remember that walking past houses that
had a quarantine notice you know how
else do you cope Hutton just 100 years
ago with tuberculosis or you know many
other you know communicable diseases
it's it's still a real question I mean
this is one of the effects I mean I know
the term white privileges it's proposed
I know it's used for a lot of things but
I mean this is a real example of a
privilege a set of presuppositions that
become invisible in all of our lives
where we start to take these things for
granted and then people make terrible
decisions that have terrible
consequences